Designing Trust-Centred  Knowledge Systems


Author: Sish Mohammad Mosnobi

Role: User Interface Research Leader

Project Context: HiveMind and Ravensbourne Work-Based Learning

1.Abstract

With all the technology we have at work onboarding and knowledge systems still fail people. New employees get stressed, do not feel part of the team. Take longer to start working well. This is even harder in workplaces that're not in one place, where people do not learn from each other as much.

This study looks at how HiveMind Academy can make onboarding, knowledge and artificial intelligence for users. We did research, designed solutions. Tested them to see if they work.

We found out that the problems with onboarding and knowledge are not about technology but about how people think and feel. If we design systems that're clear, easy to use and make people feel safe they will be more confident and trust the systems more.

1. 1.1 How People Learn at Work

Over the ten years companies have made learning, onboarding and knowledge management more digital. We use email, shared drives and special tools to learn and work together.. Sometimes these tools make things harder not easier.

For employees it can be hard to know where to find information what is correct and who to trust. This makes it hard for them to succeed.

1.2 Onboarding as a Big Change

Onboarding is not about filling out forms it is about people getting used to a new job and company. If onboarding is not done well people can feel overwhelmed not confident and not part of the team.

1.3 Why We Did This Study

We wanted to see if designing onboarding and knowledge systems with the user in mind can make a difference. We used HiveMind Academy as an example to see how design can affect people.

2. What Is the Problem

2.1 What Is Not Working

We found out that there are some problems with onboarding and knowledge systems.

* Information is over the place and hard to find

* Employees waste time looking for documents

* Onboarding is not tailored to the job. Is overwhelming

* There is no one place to find the truth

* Employees have to ask colleagues for help all the time

* It is hard to get information, which causes stress

* There is no place to find tasks, knowledge and support

* Onboarding is not. Does not help people feel confident

* Artificial intelligence is not trusted because it is not clear how it works

2.2 Looking at the Problem in a Way

Instead of just looking at these problems as things that need to be fixed we looked at them as experiences that are not working for people. The systems work,. They do not help people think, learn and trust.

3. What We Wanted to Find Out

3.1 What We Wanted to Achieve

We wanted to see how design can reduce the amount of thinking people have to do when using systems. We also wanted to see if onboarding that is tailored to the job can help people feel more prepared.

3.2 Our Questions

* How can a central place to find information help people?

* Can onboarding that is tailored to the job help people feel more confident?

* How can we design intelligence to be more trustworthy?

4. The Theory Behind Our Study

4.1 How People Think

People can only think about much at a time. If systems are too complex people get overwhelmed. Cannot learn or do their job well.

4.2 Feeling Safe at Work

People need to feel safe to ask questions make mistakes and learn. If they do not feel safe they will not try things or take risks.

4.3 Trusting Artificial Intelligence

People trust intelligence when they understand how it works and what it can do.

5. How We Did Our Study

5.1 Our Approach

We did a study over four weeks. We talked to people, designed solutions. Tested them.

5.2 The Steps We Took

* Week 1: We talked to people about their experiences with onboarding and knowledge systems.

* Week 2: We designed solutions based on what people told us.

* Week 3: We made prototypes of our solutions.

* Week 4: We tested our solutions with people.

6. What We Found Out

6.1 People Get Frustrated

People get frustrated when they cannot find information or understand how systems work.

6.2 Onboarding Is Overwhelming

Onboarding is too much for people to handle especially when it is not tailored to their job.

6.3 People Rely on Others

When systems fail people rely on their colleagues, which's not efficient in the long run.

6.4 People Do Not Trust Artificial Intelligence

People do not trust intelligence when they do not understand how it works.

7. What We Designed

7.1 A Central Place to Find Information

We designed a place to find information to reduce the amount of thinking people have to do.

7.2 Onboarding That Is Tailored to the Job

We designed onboarding that is tailored to the job to help people feel more confident.

7.3 Artificial Intelligence That Is Transparent

We designed intelligence that is transparent and explains how it works.

8. What We Found Out

8.1 People Can Do Tasks Faster

People can do tasks faster and more accurately with our solutions.

8.2 People Feel More Confident

People feel more confident and in control with our solutions.

8.3 People Trust Artificial Intelligence More

People trust intelligence more when it is transparent and explains how it works.

9. What It All Means

Our study shows that onboarding and knowledge failures are not about technology but about how people think and feel. If we design systems that're clear, easy to use and make people feel safe they will be more confident and trust the systems more.

10. What We Learned

10.1 For HiveMind Academy

We learned that design should prioritize clarity and transparency.

10.2 For Designers

We learned that confidence and trust should be measured alongside usability.

10.3 For Technology

We learned that transparency and user agency are key to adoption.

11. Limitations

Our study was small and qualitative. We would like to do research to confirm our findings.

12. Conclusion
Our study shows that designing onboarding and knowledge systems with the user, in mind can make a difference. By designing for trust, clarity and emotional safety we can create systems that help people succeed.


